football game on Saturday and then we'd have the next weekend until Thanksgiving Day of the next week to get ready for the Texas game and that was the time to build a bonfire and it was made out a lot softer stuff in those days and we kind of pile things up there we did have some logs and all but you know much smaller and
I don't remember, you know, going out in the wood and cutting thousands of logs and all that.
We didn't do it that way, but guarding the bonfire was the real chore because it was made of lighter stuff and it was vulnerable to the Texas people slipping in and setting it off.
Did anybody attempt to set it off in your years?
I'm told that
The year after I left here, I believe it was an airplane flew over and that was after I was gone.
But there was one.
But that was our greatest fear, that someone was going to light this fire and that'd be a heck of an embarrassment to us and all that.
Did y'all use rubbish or was it all logs?
It seemed like it was...
Could have been a little bit of both, as I recall.
And it was a tee, one... It was kind of a teepee kind of thing, but it was much smaller than what we have today.
Didn't go way away.
Oh, no.
And was there a real outhouse up on top?
I believe so.
You know, my impression was that it was real.
One of the things I've learned in doing these, typist, you don't need to put this in the TypeScript because it's in somebody else's statement.
This goes way back in the 20s.
that he lived at Northgate, and his father told him that in the early days, you made an arrangement with the Corps to come and get your outhouse, and in return, the campus provided you with a brand new one.
And he said one year, his father said, now that our family is so bigger, we need a bigger one.
And he said, in return, they got a two-hole earth.
and that you made out like you didn't know they were gonna get your outhouse, but you arranged it.
Were there any injuries that you remember of any importance during Bonfire your four years?
I can't remember any significant injuries.
There probably were some, but I can't remember any.
Did you and your buddies think that Bonfire was fun, or was it more of a chore?
We liked it, but I think we saw it as a chore too.
That guarding thing, that round-the-clock guarding business kind of got to us, and it was always cold and wet, it seemed.
But, you know, we turned out for bonfire.
We liked it, and it got everyone hyped up.
Pinky Downs was always there and tell his stories, and that was kind of the highlight, as I remember, Pinky Downs.
And was old Army Lou around in that era?
Yes.
Did you ever borrow any money from him?
Never borrowed any money from him, but I remember him very well, his store up at Northgate and going in there.
And, you know, he had a reputation then with Aggies that he was… Where did you buy your books?
I bought used books all the time, usually at the bookstores like Lupo's.
That's where I got most of my books and then, you know, would sell them, trade them in usually at the end.
Now, as you get serious about this young lady, to what
A&M activities did you bring her before you all got married?
Do you remember?
She came down several times.
We'd have military ball and the Air Force ball and we had a number of formal balls.
I say formal, I don't know that we'd call it formal.
I guess it was formal but everybody dressed up.
And we put on our uniform, and Cebisa was quite a place for dances.
And the Aggieland Inn was up there then, and she stayed at the Aggieland Inn a few times.
It was a nice place and convenient, but she came down several times for social kind of things, came down for graduation, final review, I believe.
Maybe not final review, but graduation.
Did you all have big bands, some of the big national bands?
Yes.
My senior ring dance, we had Russ Morgan.
Now, people today may not know who Russ Morgan was, but he's big time.
But we had the big bands here from time to time.
And at those, the ladies were treated like queens.
Yes.
And how did the males behave otherwise at the dances?
Nobody got drunk.
I don't remember any of that.
I thought to, I don't remember any bad conduct at these balls and dances.
They were pretty first class things and people seemed to enjoy themselves and behave themselves.
What about smoke?
They didn't smoke inside Sabisa.
I don't remember that.
I don't believe so.
I think that's correct.
I don't remember any smoking in there.
Did any of the campus leadership come to these dances?
Like, do you remember whether the commandant came or the president or the deans?
I can't remember, but I would think they did, but I don't know.
I have not asked anybody.
I don't know.
Were there any former students?
I don't remember outside.
You know, it was difficult to come here in those days, and we were pretty isolated in ways, but I don't remember any outside troublemakers here.
people interfering.
The dances that I remember going to were very nice events and people I thought were well-behaved, but I just don't remember a single incident.
I'm not saying there weren't because I didn't go to all of them, but things that I remember were very nice.
Now, your Aggie Pride started almost from day one.
Is that right?
My Aggie?
Pride.
Oh, yes.
Before I got here, in fact.
Try to describe what it was that contributed to that growth and development.
Well, the military was big in those days and the wars and having this good looking uniform.
And being part of something I thought had earned a lot of respect, Texas A&M and the Corps and the reputation here, its contributions to World War II and so forth, all of that had a big impact on me.
I was telling you about sitting there in Guyon Hall just feeling so good.
I was impressed.
You know, here I am.
But I thought generally the people I was associated with were good folks and the university to me was warm and receptive.
I thought people wanted to help us, a lot of good people that really would give you the back off their shirt to help you as a student.
Who were some of those?
Give examples of people and what they did.
Well, I remember J.R.
Jackson, one of them, and there was a guy by the name of Spike White, I believe his name was, had quite a reputation around here, student activities.
And this guy that ran the basic division, Cliff Ransdell, I believe his name was.
There was another fellow here that I haven't mentioned that I need to mention was David W. Williams.
He was vice chancellor for agriculture.
He lived here on campus at the time, and I roomed with his son.
His son had graduated from Bryan High School, I believe he was, David W. Williams.
I guess he was a junior, but we called him Dave or Bill.
And he and I roomed together as sophomores.
And we both played on the basketball.
We had almost identical patterns here at A&M.
And David's parents were so warm and generous.
And that was my closest exposure to the university administration was through his father and mother.
And they lived in one of those big old houses over here.
And David would frequently invite me over with him to go to their house for dinner or something.
And his father was a big affable kind of fella, just so kind.
And he helped explain A&M to me probably like no one else that I remember.
but in a very positive way.
Now his father had been, I believe, acting dean of agriculture on occasions, maybe even higher than that, I don't know, but in a interim role, but his father had served overseas, done a lot of overseas work with other countries, but recognized leader in agriculture, but he was vice chancellor, and we had a lot of opportunities to visit.
I remember one time,
that I went with his son, Dave Williams, Bill Williams, over to their house in the World Series.
No, it wasn't.
I guess it was the World Series.
It's when Bobby Thompson hit that famous home run in 1951.
I was sitting at their house and we were listening to that when that happened.
I never will forget that.
But, you know, having that home on campus, you know, campus was so much different in those days.
We'd just walk over there and kind of home away from home there for a little while with them.
But he's a guy that I really respected, admired, helped me understand A&M and through his son, David Williams.
David knew all the stuff about A&M, having lived here and grown up here.
Were there some special teachers?
Special teachers?
They taught you more than just in the classroom?
Oh, absolutely.
David's father was on the Athletic Council.
The Athletic Council carried a pretty big punch back in those days.
And David and I were kind of like the 9th and 10th of the 10th and 11th players on the squad.
I mean, that's kind of the way we ranked.
So we were down there on the end of the bench mostly.
But I remember after the...
Our sophomore year, Dallas A&M Club invited a coach and the team up for a big after-season dinner to honor the team.
And we get up there, and they get up and announce that the Letterman, and David and I are both mentioned as Letterman, I believe.
You know, that's the first we'd heard that we got a letter.
Used to, they didn't letter near, you know, they're just a small group and just a few subs that get a letter.
And we thought, hey, we just found out we announced as a letterman.
That's pretty prestigious, we thought.
Well, later it turned out that we were not, we were not approved as a letterman.
The Athletic Council apparently
had been upset that this premature announcement had been made without their concurrence or something and they did their own thing and they drew the line just short of us.
That's the story I've heard.
But Dr. Williams was on the athletic council.
He was involved in lots of things here.
Who did you turn to for advice about career planning, future goals?
I think all of that was through the Ag Ed Department.
But who?
Jackson, Professor Jackson, Professor Ross.
And then this Major Hub Johnson was ROTC.
He was my military advisor, one that I was very close to.
But those three people, my last two years, I got pretty heavily into the ag ed and practiced teaching, doing all those things.
Where'd you do your practice teaching?
Oh, several different places.
I did some.
I even went to Hamilton one time.
That was very nice.
Just happened to work out.
In Comanche, mostly little places, Rising Star.
Now, you didn't have a car, did you?
My senior year, after I was married,
My wife had a little money saved up, and we spent $400 for a 46 model Ford.
Hey, pretty good.
So my senior year, we were a married student.
We did have that old Ford.
But one of my friends was an ag head major.
We'd go out in teams.
Two of us would go together normally to do our practice teaching.
And my friend had a car.
And I remember going with him one time.
But I'm trying to think.
You know, we do practice teaching.
We usually go out for two weeks, twice a year.
And I did get a teacher's certificate when it was all over from the state.
And you were still at that time thinking your career was going to be in ag education?
Yes.
When did you get your senior, when you got your senior boots, what were they and how much they cost?
Where'd you get them?
I paid $45 for them from a graduating senior.
They were used boots, and I don't believe they were new with him.
They had been, you know, he had bought them, but they had been well-worn.
I don't know how many classes they'd been through.
But anyway, I paid $45 for them and I sold them for $35.
In that era, among your classmates, reckon how many of them bought new boots?
I don't know.
You know, some did and some didn't.
But a lot of them couldn't pass them down.
But the thing was, we didn't wear boots every day of the week.
We only wore them on special occasions.
Was it, but reckon half?
Bought used boots?
Maybe.
I don't know.
There were a lot of them that didn't.
Because you didn't really get that much use out of them.
Unless you were loaded with money, you weren't going to go buy a new set of boots.
And then your ring, how much did it cost?
$25.
And where'd you get that?
Did you earn that $25?
I got it, well, I'm sure that
Out of what resources I had, I was able to come up with $25.
Nobody bought it for me or anything, but I remember it was $25.
I hope you have some Ring stories to share.
like where you were somewhere on the other side of the world and somebody spotted it?
Oh, that's happened many times.
I'd have to think a little bit to come up with anything worth really describing that'd be that.
Have you ever lost it?
No.
Because a few people have had interesting stories where they lost it.
kept it in good shape all these years.
People look at it and they kind of marvel.
Is that your original ring?
Yes, that's my original ring.
A lot of years when I was flying, I did not wear it when you're actually flying because it was against the regulations.
The reason being, if you had to
jump out of an airplane or hustle down the ladder or something, the danger of ripping your finger off.
That was against the policy to wear a ring when you're flying like that.
So, you know, I didn't wear it during no time, but I pretty much worn it all the other times.
But it seemed like I've left it a place or two.
I had a couple of close calls, but, you know, I don't have any story, but, you know, it shows up.
Why are Aggie rings so treasured?
That's a good question.
And it is a treasured thing.
I don't know anything that people seem to be so dedicated to as they do their ring, but I think it's a symbol of the Aggie pride and spirit and all those things.
There are not many people who get to be seniors that don't feel that and want that thing in the worst way.
I talked to a fellow just yesterday.
You may have had some experience with him.
A guy I got to meet and know, his name is Joe Bax, B-A-X.
Just had his oral yesterday for his Master in History.
But I met this fellow at a... I was speaking at a...
group called, let's see, Sons of the Confederacy or something like that.
They asked me to come over and speak.
Well, this guy just happened to be sitting next to me.
I never met that.
This was three years or more ago, four years.
I'd never met the guy before.
And he told me he lives over here near Anderson, has a ranch over there.
He's a lawyer.
And he had two daughters at A&M.
And we got to know each other pretty well just because we sat next to each other.
He invited me to come over and fish at his place and I don't know where I got to know this fellow, but anyway, he
Graduated from Houston Law School, but he so much wants an Aggie degree, an Aggie ring, and he up and enrolls in history, and he's done so well.
It's unbelievable.
I believe I did meet him.
And this guy got to order his senior ring, I guess, this week, and it was the highlight.
of his, I want to say, recent years of life.
Not that much, but, I mean, it is the central thing with this guy.
I can't tell you how proud he is to have an Aggie ring.
All right.
For you, final review and commencement.
Describe those and those events for you your senior year.
Okay.
In my day, most students graduated on time.
And it was a bit of a stigma if you didn't.
I did graduate on time and as most of my classmates did.
We had a commissioning, seemed like a sort of a private one over somewhere in the military science area somewhere, but we had already signed the paperwork and all of that.
And my graduation
was held in G. Raleigh White.
It was the first event held in G. Raleigh White.
It wasn't fully finished.
There were still some things they had to do.
As I recall, we sat on the concrete
I don't believe where we sat, they had the benches in there yet.
But anyway, they hustled it together, and our graduation on May the 20th, 1954, I believe, was the first event ever held.
It was a huge building.
And I was so impressed.
My folks came, my wife's folks came, and they were there for the graduation, and a very proud day for us.
Was every hand, every name called, every hand shaken?
Did anybody attempt any pranks or jokes?
I don't remember anything like that.
We didn't wear gowns, as I recall.
We had uniform, but I don't remember any one other than normal attire.
I don't remember any graduation attire.
But, you know, the stage party, they did have robes.
I remember that.
And about what percentage, if you can recall, about what percentage of the students who graduated were not in uniform, wore a suit?
Seemed very small.
We were primarily all corps.
Was the commencement speaker somebody you remember?
Some people don't.
I can't remember, but I know you spoke at my son's graduation.
Do you remember that?
I appreciate your memory.
Oh, you bet.
Let me tell you the year and see if I'm right.
It's been 1980.
That's right.
Let me turn this.
All right, we're talking about your commencement.
Then you've got family and wife, and then after that you go for commissioning.
Was there a commissioning speaker then?
I believe we did.
Or was there an important reviewing officer?
No celebrity?
I don't remember a reviewing officer, but, you know, what we normally do, I assume that was the case then.
The commissioning officer really would be the reviewing officer as well.
But I'd have to go back and check who my commissioning officer was.
I know who signed my commissioning certificate in General Dissusway.
who was head of the training command at the time, Air Training Command.
Spell his name.
D-I-S-O-S-W-A-Y, Disosway, something like that.
How well prepared did you feel you were for going out into the real world?
What kind of job at A&M done in preparing you?
Well, I felt ready to go assume a teaching job or a county agent job.
I felt
I'd been prepared well to do that with my background and all the 4-H and FFA work I'd done.
I felt comfortable doing that.
I didn't have any question about it and being prepared.
and fully expected to do that, you know, after my military tour was over.
Did you, were you at commencement time, did you already have orders to report for active duty?
Yes.
When were you to report?
July the 7th.
Where?
To San Antonio initially for two weeks of
indoctrination and so forth, and then on to flying school, pilot training.
Where was it going to be or did you not?
Yeah, Marana, Arizona.
They did it under a civilian contract program then.
And a little airfield north of Tucson, that's where the famous Osprey crashed last year, that little air base.
Now, did you feel that you, that A&M had prepared you well for?
The Air Force?
You know, it seemed like the ROTC courses were such a broad brush, I didn't feel I had a real good grasp of all of that.
But later I found out they weren't trying to teach me all of that.
You know, some years before they'd gone into a broader
program rather than trying to teach, especially like in Army ROTC, we don't have infantry and artillery programs anymore.
It's one broad course.
There, the services are trying to find an officer that's
has a good education, preferably a technical person, but they want someone that they can make something out of.
They don't expect you to know all this when you come in.
But I felt okay as far as going into the service.
I had a lot of questions and things I didn't know.
I remember going over to, driving over to San Antonio for my first day and I check in there and there was some other guy
checking in there, kind of a tall, blond-haired fellow.
Later I went to flying school with him, but he was from West Virginia, he told me.
And I said, well, where'd you go to college?
Well, he went to Davis and Elkins.
I'd never heard of Davis and Elkins.
But it's up in the hills of West Virginia.
And he was a West Virginia hillbilly, but, you know, good guy.
But that was my first encounter of how much diversity
I was going to find, you know, people from all over the country and different things.
I do remember going through flying school and it got pretty technical there, all the ground school part teaching us about engineering and weather and all these things.
It was a program where we had to pass the test every so often and I thought the exams were pretty tough and I was in a class, my pilot training class was about half West Pointers and Naval Academy graduates and then people from all over the country.
A few of us Aggies in there, but I will say that I found that
I had to hustle more to stay at the top of the class than I had at A&M and what I'd been through.
I don't know if I'd explain all that, but I did find that I was suddenly in with some pretty cream of the crop kind of fellas.
Try to think in general terms.
As you look back on your life, what did you learn here at A&M?
attitudes, values, qualities?
What did A&M?
I was a rather shy fellow that felt like I was not, you know, in the upper sphere socially and economically, and I felt I'd got on a par.
that A&M had given me that chance.
It brought me out of my shell.
And I remember ROTC courses and leadership labs and leading the troops out there.
You know, the first time they told me, you go out there and march this squad or whatever it is and give them the commands and all.
But all of that helped bring me out of the shell, the shyness and the hesitancy that I had back in those days.
I think it helped make me, maybe arrogant, but say a leader.
It helped move me toward that.
The pride, the determination, learning perseverance about sticking with things, being on time, being punctual, staying awake.
A&M did a good job on all those things in my opinion.
It gave me a sense of pride and belonging.
I felt part of something big and good.
What are the events at A&M during a student's experience that most contribute to this pride?
In today's world or back then?
In yours.
Like I'm assuming the core.
The core, absolutely, being part of a unit.
And, you know, they have goals and objectives and they try to build teamwork
I learned something in that.
That made me feel good, but I think just being associated with A&M made me feel good from the first.
I had such respect for it that I'd learned from others.
But are events like silver taps, mustard, bonfire, commencement, final review, are those significant in building this
I think they are today.
I don't think they were as significant then as they are today.
You know, we went through those things.
Sometimes we were kind of going through the motions, I'm afraid.
Those things have developed their own character and significance, I think.
to a much greater extent over the last 50 years.
Muster is developed to a much deeper, more personal kind of thing than it was.
And we talked about it, but you know, it was in its earlier stages, I guess, and we just hadn't developed that sense of what that was all about.
Yell practice, to say that was a great motivator, I wouldn't say so.
You know, it was one of those things we had to do.
And yell practice still doesn't turn me on very much.
It really doesn't.
Midnight yell practice, I went one time when I came back to A&M and I said, that's the last time.
I haven't been back.
But some people, some of my friends and all think ill practice, midnight ill practice, just such a wonderful thing.
It's frankly what I saw was debasing and repulsive.
If you were a consultant to the A&M leadership today, what advice would you give them about how to guide A&M in the future?
What advice would I give to whom now?
The A&M leadership.
About what it should be doing.
What it should be doing.
What it should be trying to do.
Well, I think we have to, and this is, you know, what I think most of us are saying and thinking these days, you know, we've got to think broader globally.
We have to be prepared to deal with the
people of different ethnic backgrounds, women and men.
I fought hard here.
I stepped out and took the lead in integrating the Corps and trying to make women, give women a bigger role and opportunity at A&M and, golly, what fierce opposition I had on that.